But as stated earlier, we provide help in many other ways by means of our voluntary donations.
The primary focus, though, is helping people spiritually.
In contrast to Jova's organization, many publishing companies do not provide literature for
the blind.
Why?
Well, they've determined that it has not cost effective.
However, Jova wants everyone to have a hope for the future.
Notice how our organization works hard to make the truth more readily available for those who are blind.
I can't wait to see birds.
I can't wait to see their little beaks chirp when I hear the sound of them.
I was fully sighted until I was nine and then gradually started losing my sight.
When I was young, I loved skiing.
I skied and enjoyed the outdoors.
We're really very busy in our life.
We have my mother, who's 85 and my aunt, who's 92, that live here also.
So we have their lives to work around doctors and meals.
We have our Theocratic life and we have our studies, our field service, our personal study.
I lead a very, very full life.
I just happen to be blind.
In my early 30s, I lost the use of my right eye.
It was quite sudden and I went to the doctor and following the examination, he took me into
his office and let me know that I would be blind in both eyes and it's immediate response
by me was fear.
But it was the ministry that gave me the greatest strength and confidence to go forward.
Throughout the United States branch territory, there are about 20 million persons that are
either blind or suffer from low vision.
And in response to that, the organization has produced braille literature in a number
of languages, also audio files, as well as electronic screen reader files.
Our principal function is to transcribe publications into braille.
The transcription is done electronically by a program that has been produced in-house
and is part of the watch tower translation system.
We produce braille files that can be embossed into paper publications.
The screen reader and no-taker files are uploaded to the JW.org website for use by blind
and visually impaired persons.
Not being able to read and having to learn to get the spiritual truths in in a different
way is quite a challenge.
That's where the audio recordings being able to hear, I am able to do exactly what I
used to.
First Corinthians 9.22 says, I have become all things to people of all sorts that I might
by all possible means save some.
And we've taken those words to heart.
We want persons outside of our organization to benefit from the literature that we are
producing for the blind.
Now, after attending an expo for the blind, Janet recognized the vast potential that exists
in the blind community for the good news.
The amount of blind people at the expo, it was astounding.
In the first thing that we thought of was, these people need Jehovah.
And immediately, we came home and we called Bethel and told them what we saw.
We appointed a sign language circuit officer to organize our participation at the event.
And this was also beneficial because some persons who attended are both blind and deaf, thus
could only benefit from tactile sign language.
We got together the week before and discussed how we were going to set up a table in the
booth.
Some blind people prefer braille and others prefer audio.
So we had to have both available for them.
Anything that would attract those who are blind.
So they would come up to the table, they could feel the braille, literature, they could
feel the visual aids, they could listen to a scripture about God's hope for the future.
So everything was tailored to those who are blind or visually impaired.
Our participation at these expos has been tremendously successful.
Many times, these individuals that are present are learning the truth for the first time.
61% of the people that we talked to gave us their contact information.
Everyone was very appreciative.
They all enjoyed what we had to show them and teach them.
Many of them left the booth with multiple pieces of literature.
Some of those who approached the booth were so appreciative, they gave us hugs, they
saw them sat down right then there to have their first study.
It was a very special experience and it felt like we were opening a new form of ministry.
It felt like we were contacting a group of people that hadn't had the opportunity to
know each other before.
They can see the truth, they can see the ring of truth in their minds eyes.
So many people thank us for being there.
This ministry is really unbelievable.
It's unlike anything I've done in my life.